TopoDepot™ Help: Tiger® Data 
  ***7½-Minute Vector Quad Maps To Go!***
  by Sylvan Ascent, Inc. 
  Cybercartographers of Planet Earth™ 
     TIGER® Data and Layer Descriptions
        Streets, Water Features, Transportation
        The US Census Bureau TIGER/LINE files were used for the basic 
        cartographic data for the TopoDepot. These files are identical to the 
        USGS 100K DLG feature data everywhere except urban areas. We used the 
        TIGER files because they have street names added, whereas the DLG files 
        have no street name information. Unfortunately, the Census Bureau used 
        their own DIME files in urban areas. These files are more up-to-date 
        than the DLG files, but their positional accuracy is not as good as the 
        DLG files. Here is the US Census Bureau official documentation on the 
        TIGER/Liner data. 
        Accuracy: Map accuracy for these maps varies by feature and by 
        geographical area. Each type corresponds to National Map Accuracy 
        standards for the original data from the US government. The TIGER maps 
        were derived from the USGS 1:100,000 DLG data in rural areas (NAD27). 
        The DLG files have a stated accuracy of approximately ±166 feet. In 
        urban areas, the Census Bureau DIME data were used; they have no 
        accuracy specifications. 
         
        Census Feature Class Codes (CFCC)
        This is a series of codes that provides more detailed information on the 
        classification of the line segment, such as class of road or class of 
        stream.
         CFCC CLASSIFICATION A = ROAD FEATURES
        A00 Road, Classification Unknown or Not Elsewhere Classified
        A01 Road, undivided
        A02 Road, undivided, in tunnel
        A03 Road, undivided, underpassing
        A04 Road, undivided, rail line in center
        A05 Road, divided
        A06 Road, divided, in tunnel
        A07 Road, divided, underpassing
        A08 Road, divided, rail line in center 
        A10 Primary road, interstate highway and limited access road
        A11 Primary road, interstate highway and limited access road, undivided
        A12 Primary road, interstate highway and limited access road, undivided, 
        in tunnel
        A13 Primary road, interstate highway and limited access road, undivided, 
        underpassing
        A14 Primary road, interstate highway and limited access road, undivided, 
        rail line in center 
        A15 Primary road, interstate highway and limited access road, divided
        A16 Primary road, interstate highway and limited access road, divided, 
        in tunnel
        A17 Primary road, interstate highway and limited access road, divided, 
        underpassing 
        A18 Primary road, interstate highway and limited access road, divided, 
        rail line in center 
        A20 Secondary road, U.S. highway not classified A10, and state roads
        A21 Secondary road, U.S. highway not classified A10, and state roads, 
        undivided
        A22 Secondary road, U.S. highway not classified A10, and state roads, 
        undivided, in tunnel
        A23 Secondary road, U.S. highway not classified A10, and state roads, 
        undivided, underpassing
        A24 Secondary road, U.S. highway not classified A10, and state roads, 
        undivided, rail line in center 
        A25 Secondary road, U.S. highway not classified A10, and state roads, 
        divided
        A26 Secondary road, U.S. highway not classified A10, and state roads, 
        divided, in tunnel
        A27 Secondary road, U.S. highway not classified A10, and state roads, 
        divided, underpassing
        A30 Connecting road, county roads, and roads not classified as A10 or 
A20
        A31 Connecting road, county roads, and roads not classified as A10 or 
        A20, undivided
        A32 Connecting road, county roads, and roads not classified as A10 or 
        A20, undivided, in tunnel
        A33 Connecting road, county roads, and roads not classified as A10 or 
        A20, undivided, underpassing
        A34 Connecting road, county roads, and roads not classified as A10 or 
        A20, undivided, rail line in center
        A35 Connecting road, county roads, and roads not classified as A10 or 
        A20, divided
        A36 Connecting road, county roads, and roads not classified as A10 or 
        A20, divided, in tunnel
        A37 Connecting road, county roads, and roads not classified as A10 or 
        A20, divided, underpassing
        A38 Connecting road, county roads, and roads not classified as A10 or 
        A20, divided, rail line in center 
        A40 Neighborhood roads, city streets and unimproved roads
        A41 Neighborhood roads, city streets and unimproved roads, undivided
        A42 Neighborhood roads, city streets and unimproved roads, undivided, in 
        tunnel
        A43 Neighborhood roads, city streets and unimproved roads, undivided, 
        underpassing
        A44 Neighborhood roads, city streets and unimproved roads, undivided, 
        rail line in center 
        A45 Neighborhood roads, city streets and unimproved roads, divided
        A46 Neighborhood roads, city streets and unimproved roads, divided, in 
        tunnel
        A47 Neighborhood roads, city streets and unimproved roads, divided, 
        underpassing
        A48 Neighborhood roads, city streets and unimproved roads, divided, rail 
        line in center 
        A50 Jeep trail, passable only by four-wheel drive (4WD) vehicle
        A51 Jeep trail, passable only by four-wheel drive (4WD) vehicle, 
        undivided
        A52 Jeep trail, passable only by four-wheel drive (4WD) vehicle, 
        undivided, in tunnel
        A53 Jeep trail, passable only by four-wheel drive (4WD) vehicle, 
        undivided, underpassing 
        A60 Special Road Feature
        A61 Cul-de-sac
        A62 Traffic circle
        A63 Cloverleaf or interchange
        A64 Service drive
        A65 Ferry crossing 
        A70 Other Thoroughfare
        A71 Walkway
        A72 Stairway
        A73 Alley
        NOTE: In the portion of the TIGER/Line file prepared from the 
        GBF/DIME-Files, the roads are classified as Class 4 roads with a few 
        exceptions. The interstate highways that were identified by name as such 
        in the DIME-File, are classified as class 1 roads. Also, in the 
        GBF/DIME-File coverage areas, users may not find many roads with 
        alternate names; if an alternate name is provided, it usually represents 
        another local name and not a Route Number.
        CFCC CLASSIFICATION B = RAIL FEATURES 
        B00 Railroad, Classification Unknown or Not Elsewhere Classified 
        B01 Railroad track
        B02 Railroad track, in tunnel 
        B03 Railroad track, underpassing 
        B10 Railroad Main Track
        B11 Railroad main track
        B12 Railroad main track, in tunnel 
        B13 Railroad main track, underpassing 
        B20 Railroad Spur Track
        B21 Railroad spur track
        B22 Railroad spur track, in tunnel 
        B23 Railroad spur track, underpassing 
        B30 Railroad Yard
        B31 Railroad yard
        B32 Railroad yard, in tunnel 
        B33 Railroad yard, underpassing 
        B40 Railroad Ferry Crossing 
        B50 Other Rail Feature
        B51 Carline
        B52 Cog railroad, incline railway, or logging tram
        CFCC CLASSIFICATION C = PIPELINES, POWER TRANSMISSION LINES, AND 
        MISCELLANEOUS TRANSPORTATION FEATURES
        C00 Special Transportation Feature, Classification Unknown or Not 
        Elsewhere Classified
        C10 Pipeline 
        C20 Power Transmission Line 
        C30 Other Special Transportation Feature
        C31 Aerial tramway, monorail, or ski lift
         CFCC CLASSIFICATION D = LANDMARK FEATURES
        D00 Landmark Feature, Classification Unknown or Not Elsewhere Classified
        D50 Transportation terminal
        D51 Airport or airfield
         CFCC CLASSIFICATION E = OTHER PHYSICAL FEATURES
        E00 Physical Feature, Classification Unknown or Not Elsewhere Classified
        E10 Fence line 
        E20 Topographic feature
        E21 Ridge line
        E22 Mountain peak
         
        CFCC CLASSIFICATION F = NONVISIBLE BOUNDARIES
        F00 Nonvisible Boundary, Classification Unknown or Not Elsewhere 
        Classified
        F10 Nonvisible Political Boundary
        F11 Offset Corporate Boundary
        F12 Corporate Corridor
        F13 Nonvisible interpolated boundary
        F14 Superseded legal or administrative boundary
        F15 Superseded legal or administrative boundary, corrected through post
        census process
        F16 Superseded legal or administrative boundary, current at the time of 
        the
        1992 Economic Census
        F17 Nonvisible State Legislative District boundary
        F18 Nonvisible Congressional District boundary
        F20 Feature Extension (Extensions not otherwise classified)
        F21 Automated extensions
        F22 Manually added block extensions
        F23 Closure extension
        F24 Nonvisible separation line
        F25 Nonvisible corporate corridor line
        F30 Point-to-Point line
        F40 Property Line
        F50 Zip Code Boundary
        F60 Map edge
        F70 Statistical Area Boundary
        F71 1980 Statistical Boundary
        F72 1990 Block Boundary
        F73 Urbanized area land use boundary
        F74 1990 Statistical Boundary, Tabulation Areas Only
         
        CFCC CLASSIFICATION H = HYDROGRAPHIC FEATURES
        H00 Water Feature, Classification Unknown or Not Elsewhere Classified
        H01 Shoreline of perennial water feature
        H02 Shoreline of intermittent water feature 
         
        H10 Stream
        H11 Perennial stream
        H12 Intermittent stream or wash
        H13 Braided stream 
        H20 Canal, Ditch, or Aqueduct
        H21 Perennial canal, ditch, or aqueduct
        H22 Intermittent canal, ditch, or aqueduct
        H30 Lake or pond
        H31 Perennial lake or pond
        H32 Intermittent lake or pond 
        H40 Reservoir
        H41 Perennial reservoir
        H42 Intermittent reservoir 
        H50 Bay, Estuary, Gulf, Sound, Sea, or Ocean
        H51 Bay, estuary, gulf, or sound
        H53 Sea or ocean 
        H60 Gravel Pit or Quarry Filled With Water 
        H70 Nonvisible Water Area Definition Boundary 
        H71 USGS closure line
        H72 Census computed center line
        H73 Census international water boundary, 10-mile limit, area measurement 
        line
        H74 Census water boundary, inland or coastal or Great Lakes
        H75 3-mile limit water boundary 
        H80 Special Water Feature
        H81 Glacier
         CFCC CLASSIFICATION X = FEATURES NOT YET CLASSIFIED
        X00 Feature Not Yet Classified
        NMS75, NMS100, NMS125
        The NMSXX layers are the name layers. There are three sizes of names, 
        depending on the size of the road. A longer road will have a slightly 
        larger text size than a shorter road.
         
         FEATURE CLASS DEFINITIONS
        The feature class terms and abbreviations currently consist of nine or 
        fewer letters and were chosen for computer search and retrieval 
        purposes. They do not necessarily represent terminology for the 
        identification of all kinds of cultural and natural features. Although 
        some of the terms may agree with dictionary definitions, they represent 
        more generalized categories. Some commonly used generics are listed in 
        parentheses at the end of each entry to assist in understanding the 
        range of cultural and natural entities represented by the term. 
        Refer to the Reference Data Base to retrieve all generics thus far 
        encountered in geographic names compilation. In most instances a plural 
        form is listed as if it were singular; for example, archipelago or 
        islands would be categorized as island. The terms and the definitions 
        are as follows:
        airport: manmade facility maintained for the use of aircraft (airfield, 
        airstrip, landing field, landing strip).
        arch: natural arch-like opening in a rock mass (bridge, natural bridge, 
        sea arch).
        area: any one of several extensive natural features not included in 
        other categories (badlands, barren, delta, fan, garden).
        arroyo: watercourse or channel through which water may occasionally flow 
        (coulee, draw, gully, wash).
        bar: natural accumulation of sand, gravel, or alluvium forming an 
        underwater or exposed embankment (ledge, reef, sandbar, shoal, spit).
        basin: natural depression or relatively low area enclosed by higher land 
        (amphitheater, cirque, pit, sink).
        bay: indentation of a coastline or shoreline enclosing a part of a body 
        of water; a body of water partly surrounded by land (arm, bight, cove, 
        estuary, gulf, inlet, sound).
        beach: the sloping shore along a body of water that is washed by waves 
        or tides and is usually covered by sand or gravel (coast, shore, 
strand).
        bench: area of relatively level land on the flank of an elevation such 
        as a hill, ridge, or mountain where the slope of the land rises on one 
        side and descends on the opposite side (level).
        bend: curve in the course of a stream and (or) the land within the 
        curve; a curve in a linear body of water (bottom, loop, meander).
        bridge: manmade structure carrying a trail, road, or other 
        transportation system across a body of water or depression (causeway, 
        overpass, trestle).
        building: a manmade structure with walls and a roof for protection of 
        people and (or) materials, but not including church, hospital, or 
school.
        canal: manmade waterway used by water craft or for drainage, irrigation, 
        mining, or water power (ditch, lateral).
        cape: projection of land extending into a body of water (lea, neck, 
        peninsula, point).
         
        cave: natural underground passageway or chamber, or a hollowed out 
        cavity in the side of a cliff (cavern, grotto).
        cemetery: a place or area for burying the dead (burial, burying ground, 
        grave, memorial garden).
        channel: linear deep part of a body of water through which the main 
        volume of water flows and is frequently used as a route for water craft 
        (passage, reach, strait, thoroughfare).
        church: building used for religious worship (chapel, mosque, synagogue, 
        tabernacle, temple).
        civil: a political division formed for administrative purposes (borough, 
        county, municipal, parish, town, township).
        cliff: very steep or vertical slope (bluff, crag, head, headland, nose, 
        palisades, precipice, promontory, rim, rim rock).
        crater: circular-shaped depression at the summit of a volcanic cone or 
        one on the surface of the land caused by the impact of a meteorite; a 
        manmade depression caused by an explosion (caldera, lua).
        crossing: a place where two or more routes of transportation form a 
        junction or intersection (overpass, underpass).
        dam: water barrier or embankment built across the course of a stream or 
        into a body of water to control and (or) impound the flow of water 
        (breakwater, dike, jetty).
        falls: perpendicular or very steep fall of water in the course of a 
        stream (cascade, cataract, waterfall).
        flat: relative level area within a region of greater relief (clearing, 
        glade, playa).
        forest: bounded area of woods, forest, or grassland under the 
        administration of a political agency (see woods) (national forest. 
        national grasslands, State forest).
        gap: low point or opening between hills or mountains or in a ridge or 
        mountain range (col, notch, pass, saddle, water gap, wind gap).
        geyser: eruptive spring from which hot water and (or) steam, and in some 
        cases, mud are periodically thrown.
        glacier: body or stream of ice moving outward and downslope from an area 
        of accumulation; an area of relatively permanent snow or ice on the top 
        or side of a mountain or mountainous area (ice field, ice patch, snow 
        patch).
        gut: relatively small coastal waterway connecting larger bodies of water 
        or other waterways (creek, inlet, slough).
        harbor: sheltered area of water where ships or other water craft can 
        anchor or dock (hono, port, roads, roadstead).
        hospital: building where the sick or injured may receive medical or 
        surgical attention (infirmary).
        island: area of dry or relatively dry land surrounded by water or low 
        wetland (archipelago, atoll, cay, hammock, hummock, isla, isle, key, 
        moku, rock).
        isthmus: narrow section of land in a body of water connecting two larger 
        land areas.
        lake: natural body of inland water (backwater, lac, lagoon, laguna, 
        pond, pool, resaca, waterhole).
        lava: formations resulting from the consolidation of molten rock on the 
        surface of the Earth (kepula, lava flow).
        levee: natural or manmade embankment flanking a stream (bank, berm).
        locale: place at which there is or was human activity; it does not 
        include populated places, mines, and dams (battlefield, crossroad, camp, 
        farm, ghost town, landing, railroad siding, ranch, ruins, site, station, 
        windmill).
        mine: place or area from which commercial minerals are or were removed 
        from the Earth; not including oil field (pit, quarry, shaft).
        oil field: area where petroleum is or was removed from the Earth.
        other: category for miscellaneous named manmade entities that cannot 
        readily be placed in the other feature classes listed here.
        park: place or area set aside for recreation or preservation of a 
        cultural or natural resource and under some form of government 
        administration; not including National or State forests or Reserves 
        (National Historical Landmark, National Park, State Park, Wilderness 
        Area).
        pillar: vertical, standing, often spire-shaped, natural rock formation 
        (chimney, monument, pinnacle, pohaku, rock tower).
        plain: a region of general uniform slope, comparatively level and of 
        considerable extent (grassland, highland, kula, plateau, upland).
        ppl: (populated place) place or area with clustered or scattered 
        buildings and a permanent human population (city, settlement, town, 
        village).
        range: chain of hills of mountains; a somewhat linear, complex 
        mountainous or hilly area (cordillera, sierra).
        rapids: fast-flowing section of a stream, often shallow and with exposed 
        rock or boulders (riffle, ripple).
        reserve: a tract of land set aside for a specific use (does not include 
        forests, civil divisions, parks). reservoir - artificially impounded 
        body of water (lake, tank).
        ridge: elevation with a narrow, elongated crest which can be part of a 
        hill or mountain (crest, cuesta, escarpment, hogback, lae, rim, spur).
        school: building or group of buildings used as an institution for study, 
        teaching, and learning (academy, college, high school, university).
        sea: large body of salt water (gulf, ocean).
        slope: a gently inclined part of the Earth's surface (grade, pitch).
        spring: place where underground water flows naturally to the surface of 
        the Earth (seep).
        stream: linear body of water flowing on the Earth's surface (anabranch, 
        awawa, bayou, branch, brook, creek, distributary, fork, kill, pup, rio, 
        river, run, slough).
        summit: prominent elevation rising above the surrounding level of the 
        Earth's surface; does not include pillars, ridges, or ranges (ahu, berg, 
        bald, butte, cerro, colina, cone, cumbre, dome, head, hill, horn, knob, 
        knoll, mauna, mesa, mesita, mound, mount, mountain, peak, puu, rock, 
        sugarloaf, table, volcano).
        swamp: poorly drained wetland, fresh or saltwater, wooded or grassy, 
        possibly covered with open water (bog, cienega, marais, marsh, pocosin).
        trail: route for passage from one point to another; does not include 
        roads or highways (jeep trail, path, ski trail).
        tower: a manmade structure, higher than its diameter, generally used for 
        observation, storage, or electronic transmission. 
        tunnel - linear underground passageway open at both ends.
        valley: linear depression in the Earth's surface that generally slopes 
        from one end to the other (barranca, canyon, chasm, cove, draw, glen, 
        gorge, gulch, gulf, hollow, ravine).
        well: manmade shaft or hole in the Earth's surface used to obtain fluid 
        or gaseous materials.
        woods: small area covered with a dense growth of trees; does not include 
        an area of trees under the administration of a political agency (see 
        forest).

        Return to Help Table of Contents or click on your browser's "Back" 
        button to continue.
